<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:p="http://primefaces.org/ui">

<h:head>
	<title>Ajax Method Call Demo</title>
</h:head>
<h:body>
	<p:panel header="Ajax Method Call Demo" id="panel">
		<h:outputText value="This demo explains how " />
		<ul>
			<li>Methods of a dialog can be called without using JSF.</li>
			<li>This can be used to integrate JavaScript libraries like
			jQuery, D3 or Raphael with the Xpert.ivy backend.</li>
		</ul>
		<p>
		When pressing the "Say Hello" Button the helloWold() Method of the Dialog will be called. The result of the call will be written to in the result element below.
		</p>
		<p>
		This is only a simple example how to use the Ajax Method Call API. We suggest to use this API to integrate client side Ajax Libraries into Xpert.ivy.
		</p>
		<p>
		If you do not want to integrate a JavaScript Library then you should use the JSF options for asynchronous Requests.   
		</p>
		<button id="hello">Say Hello</button><br />
    	Result: <span id="result"></span>
    	
    	<!-- jQuery is used to do the Ajax Call. -->
		<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../js/jquery-1.8.2.min.js"></script>
		
		<!-- This Script is generated for each dialog and simplifies the way to call the method. -->
		<script type="text/javascript" src="rest/ivyajaxapi.js"></script>
		
		<script type="text/javascript">
				// jQuery is used to intercept the click on the Button with id #hello
				$("#hello").click(function() {

						// The ivyajaxapi.js script provides the logic object, 
						// which contains a funtion for each method available on the dialogs interface.
						// If you would like to use the REST API in a more advanced way or without jQuery, 
						// have a look at the generated ivyajaxapi.js script to see how the REST API is used.
						logic.helloWorld( 
							
							// The first parameter is a data structure, which represents the list of parameters
							{"name": "World"},
							
							// The second parameter is a function, which is called on a successful response.
							function(returnData)
							{
								// returnData is a JavaScript Object containing one field for each Method return value.
								// returnData.result accesses the return value named result.
								$("#result").html(returnData.result);
							});
				});
		</script>
	</p:panel>
</h:body>
</html>