<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:f="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/core"
  xmlns:h="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/html" xmlns:ui="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/facelets"
  xmlns:p="http://primefaces.org/ui">
<h:body>
  <ui:composition template="/layouts/HtmlDemo.xhtml">
    <ui:param name="centerHeader" value="AJAX Method Call Demo" />
    <ui:define name="breadcrumb">Other/AJAX Method Call Demo</ui:define>

    <ui:define name="content">
      <h:panelGroup layout="block" id="panel">
        <p>This demo explains how:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Methods of a dialog can be called without using JSF.</li>
          <li>This can be used to integrate JavaScript libraries like jQuery, D3 or Raphael with the Axon Ivy backend.
          </li>
        </ul>
        <h4>AJAX Method Call</h4>
        <p>When pressing the "Say Hello" Button the helloWold() Method of the Dialog will be called. The result of the
          call will be written to in
          the result element below.</p>
        <p>This is only a simple example how to use the Ajax Method Call API. We suggest to use this API to integrate
          client side Ajax Libraries
          into Axon Ivy.</p>
        <p>If you do not want to integrate a JavaScript Library then you should use the JSF options for asynchronous
          Requests.</p>
        <br />
        <h:panelGrid>
          <p:commandButton value="Say Hello" id="hello" />
        </h:panelGrid>
        <br />
        Result: <span id="result"></span>

        <hr />
        <h4>Close Dialog</h4>
        <p>
          If your dialog logic runs in an exit end, you get redirected to the next page in line. <br /> Click on Close
          Dialog to get redirected:<br />
          <br />
          <h:panelGrid>
            <p:commandButton value="Close Dialog" id="closeDialog" />
          </h:panelGrid>
          <br />
        </p>

        <!-- This Script is generated for each dialog and simplifies the way to call the method. -->
        <script type="text/javascript" src="rest/ivyajaxapi.js"></script>

        <script type="text/javascript">
          // jQuery (included in Primefaces) is used to intercept the click on the Button with id #hello
          $("#hello").click(function () {
            // The ivyajaxapi.js script provides the logic object,
            // which contains a funtion for each method available on the dialogs interface.
            // If you would like to use the REST API in a more advanced way or without jQuery,
            // have a look at the generated ivyajaxapi.js script to see how the REST API is used.
            logic.helloWorld(
              // The first parameter is a data structure, which represents the list of parameters
              {
                "name": "World"
              },
              // The second parameter is a function, which is called on a successful response.
              function (returnData) {
                // returnData is a JavaScript Object containing one field for each Method return value.
                // returnData.result accesses the return value named result.
                $("#result").html(returnData.result);
              }
            );
          });

          $("#closeDialog").click(function () {
            logic.closeDialog();
          });
        </script>

      </h:panelGroup>
    </ui:define>

  </ui:composition>
</h:body>

</html>
